CLAUDE_INSTRUCTIONS.md, before:

# Modelio BPMN Macro Generation - Claude Instructions v2.2

## Overview

You are helping users create BPMN process diagrams in Modelio using Jython macros. 

**Two-file system** for faster, more reliable generation:

1. **BPMN_Helpers.py** - Helper library (placed in Modelio macros folder)
2. **Generated file** - Pure configuration + `execfile()` to load helpers

**v2.2 Features**:
- Data Objects with automatic lane expansion
- Data Associations with correct BPMN semantics
- Lane-by-lane positioning for proper diagram layout

## Why Two Files?

| Benefit | Explanation |
|---------|-------------|
| Faster generation | Only generate configuration, not 500+ lines of helpers |
| More reliable | Helper code is tested; only configuration can vary |
| Easier debugging | Configuration is declarative and easy to validate |
| Smaller error surface | Less generated code = fewer syntax errors |
| Single execution | `execfile()` loads helpers automatically |

---

## Quick Start for Claude

When a user asks for a BPMN diagram:

1. **Ask clarifying questions** about lanes, tasks, decisions if needed
2. **Generate ONLY the configuration file** (with execfile to load helpers)
3. **Remind user** to place BPMN_Helpers.py in their macros folder

### Minimal Generated File Template

```python
#
# ProcessName.py
#
# Description: [Brief description]
# Applicable on: Package
#

from org.modelio.metamodel.uml.statik import Package

# Load helper library (adjust path for your Modelio version)
execfile(".modelio/5.4/macros/BPMN_Helpers.py")

CONFIG = {
    "name": "ProcessName",
    
    "lanes": ["Lane1", "Lane2"],
    
    "elements": [
        ("Start", START, "Lane1"),
        ("Task 1", USER_TASK, "Lane1"),
        ("End", END, "Lane2"),
    ],
    
    "flows": [
        ("Start", "Task 1", ""),
        ("Task 1", "End", ""),
    ],
    
    "layout": {
        "Start": 0,
        "Task 1": 1,
        "End": 2,
    },
}

# Entry point
if (selectedElements.size > 0):
    element = selectedElements.get(0)
    if (isinstance(element, Package)):
        createBPMNFromConfig(element, CONFIG)
    else:
        print "ERROR: Select a Package."
else:
    print "ERROR: Select a Package first."
```

---

## Configuration Reference

### Element Types

| Constant | Icon | Use |
|----------|------|-----|
| `START` | Green circle | Process start |
| `MESSAGE_START` | Envelope green circle | Start triggered by message |
| `TIMER_START` | Clock green circle | Start triggered by schedule |
| `END` | Red circle | Process end |
| `MESSAGE_END` | Envelope red circle | End that sends message |
| `USER_TASK` | Person rectangle | Human activity with IT |
| `SERVICE_TASK` | Gear rectangle | Automated task |
| `MANUAL_TASK` | Hand rectangle | Physical task without IT |
| `EXCLUSIVE_GW` | Diamond with X | XOR decision (one path) |
| `PARALLEL_GW` | Diamond with + | AND split/join (all paths) |
| `DATA_OBJECT` | Document icon | Data/document in process |

### CONFIG Structure

```python
CONFIG = {
    # Required
    "name": "ProcessName",           # Base name (gets unique suffix)
    "lanes": ["Lane1", "Lane2"],     # Top to bottom order
    "elements": [...],               # List of (name, type, lane)
    "flows": [...],                  # List of (source, target, guard)
    "layout": {...},                 # Dict of name -> column
    
    # Optional - Data Objects
    "data_objects": [...],           # List of (name, lane, column, position)
    "data_associations": [...],      # List of (source, target, direction)
    
    # Optional layout settings (defaults shown)
    "SPACING": 150,                  # Horizontal spacing
    "START_X": 80,                   # Starting X position
    "TASK_WIDTH": 120,               # Task width
    "TASK_HEIGHT": 60,               # Task height
    "DATA_WIDTH": 40,                # Data object width
    "DATA_HEIGHT": 50,               # Data object height
    "DATA_OFFSET_X": 20,             # Data object X offset from column
    "DATA_OFFSET_Y": 80,             # Data object Y offset (positive = below tasks)
    "WAIT_TIME_MS": 50,              # Wait between unmask checks
    "MAX_ATTEMPTS": 3,               # Max unmask attempts
}
```

### Elements Format

```python
"elements": [
    ("Element Name", ELEMENT_TYPE, "Lane Name"),
    # ...
]
```

- **Element Name**: Unique string shown in diagram
- **ELEMENT_TYPE**: One of the constants above
- **Lane Name**: Must exactly match a name in `lanes` list

### Flows Format

```python
"flows": [
    ("Source Name", "Target Name", "Guard/Label"),
    # ...
]
```

- **Source/Target Name**: Must match element names exactly
- **Guard/Label**: Text shown on arrow (use "" for no label)
- Guards are especially useful for gateway outflows: `"Yes"`, `"No"`, `"Approved"`, etc.

### Layout Format

```python
"layout": {
    "Element Name": column_index,  # 0, 1, 2, ...
    # ...
}
```

- **column_index**: Horizontal position (0 = leftmost)
- Elements in same lane at same column will overlap!
- Plan your column layout carefully for complex processes

### Data Objects Format (Optional)

```python
"data_objects": [
    ("Data Name", "Lane Name", column_index, "above|below"),
    # ...
]
```

- **Data Name**: Unique string for the data object
- **Lane Name**: Which lane to place it in
- **column_index**: Horizontal position (typically same column as the task that outputs it)
- **position**: `"below"` (recommended) or `"above"` relative to lane center

**Positioning Note**: Data objects are positioned lane-by-lane (top to bottom). When data objects extend beyond a lane's boundary, Modelio auto-expands the lane, pushing subsequent lanes down. The helper library handles this by re-reading lane coordinates after each lane's data objects are positioned.

### Data Associations Format (Optional)

```python
"data_associations": [
    ("Source Name", "Target Name", "input|output"),
    # ...
]
```

- **Source/Target**: Element or data object names
- **direction**:
  - `"output"`: Task produces data (Task → Data Object)
  - `"input"`: Task consumes data (Data Object → Task)

**BPMN Semantics**:
- OUTPUT: Sets `StartingActivity = Task`, `TargetRef = DataObject`
- INPUT: Sets `EndingActivity = Task`, `SourceRef = DataObject`

**Data Flow Pattern**: A typical data flow goes:
```
Task A --(output)--> Data Object --(input)--> Task B
```

This means:
1. Task A produces the data object (output association, arrow from Task A to Data Object)
2. The data object is consumed by Task B (input association, arrow from Data Object to Task B)

---

## Critical Rules

### 1. Python 2 Syntax (Jython)
```python
# CORRECT
print "Hello"
print "Count: " + str(count)

# WRONG (Python 3)
print("Hello")
f"Count: {count}"
```

### 2. ASCII Only - No Unicode
```python
# CORRECT
"Approved?", "Yes", "No"

# WRONG - Will cause UnicodeDecodeError
"Approved?", "✓", "✗"
```

### 3. Exact Name Matching
Lane names, element names, and flow references must match exactly (case-sensitive).

### 4. Complete Coverage
- Every element needs a layout entry
- Every element except ends needs at least one outgoing flow
- Every element except starts needs at least one incoming flow

---

## Example: Simple Approval Process

```python
CONFIG = {
    "name": "SimpleApproval",
    
    "lanes": ["Requester", "Approver"],
    
    "elements": [
        ("Submit Request",  START,        "Requester"),
        ("Fill Form",       USER_TASK,    "Requester"),
        ("Review Request",  USER_TASK,    "Approver"),
        ("Decide",          EXCLUSIVE_GW, "Approver"),
        ("Approved",        END,          "Requester"),
        ("Rejected",        END,          "Requester"),
    ],
    
    "flows": [
        ("Submit Request", "Fill Form",      ""),
        ("Fill Form",      "Review Request", ""),
        ("Review Request", "Decide",         ""),
        ("Decide",         "Approved",       "Yes"),
        ("Decide",         "Rejected",       "No"),
    ],
    
    "layout": {
        "Submit Request":  0,
        "Fill Form":       1,
        "Review Request":  2,
        "Decide":          3,
        "Approved":        4,
        "Rejected":        4,  # Same column, different lane
    },
}
```

---

## Example: Process with Data Objects

```python
CONFIG = {
    "name": "DocumentReview",
    
    "lanes": ["Author", "Reviewer"],
    
    "elements": [
        ("Start",           START,     "Author"),
        ("Write Document",  USER_TASK, "Author"),
        ("Submit",          USER_TASK, "Author"),
        ("Review",          USER_TASK, "Reviewer"),
        ("Add Comments",    USER_TASK, "Reviewer"),
        ("End",             END,       "Reviewer"),
    ],
    
    # Data Objects: (name, lane, column, position)
    # Place below the task that outputs them (same column)
    "data_objects": [
        ("Draft",     "Author",   1, "below"),  # Below Write Document
        ("Final Doc", "Author",   2, "below"),  # Below Submit
        ("Comments",  "Reviewer", 3, "below"),  # Below Review
    ],
    
    # Data Associations: (source, target, direction)
    # Pattern: Task outputs data, data inputs to next task
    "data_associations": [
        ("Write Document", "Draft",        "output"),  # Task produces data
        ("Draft",          "Submit",       "input"),   # Data consumed by task
        ("Submit",         "Final Doc",    "output"),
        ("Final Doc",      "Review",       "input"),
        ("Review",         "Comments",     "output"),
        ("Comments",       "Add Comments", "input"),
    ],
    
    "flows": [
        ("Start",          "Write Document", ""),
        ("Write Document", "Submit",         ""),
        ("Submit",         "Review",         ""),
        ("Review",         "Add Comments",   ""),
        ("Add Comments",   "End",            ""),
    ],
    
    "layout": {
        "Start":          0,
        "Write Document": 1,
        "Submit":         2,
        "Review":         3,
        "Add Comments":   4,
        "End":            5,
    },
}
```

---

## Troubleshooting

| Problem | Solution |
|---------|----------|
| `IOError: No such file` | Check BPMN_Helpers.py path in execfile() |
| `NameError: createBPMNFromConfig` | execfile() path is wrong or file missing |
| UnicodeDecodeError | Use ASCII only - no special characters |
| Element in wrong lane | Check lane name spelling in elements list |
| Missing element | Check name spelling in layout and flows |
| Elements overlap | Use different column indices |
| Flow not showing | Check source/target names match exactly |
| Data association missing | Check element names in data_associations |
| Data association arrow wrong direction | Verify "input" vs "output" direction is correct |
| Data object overlaps task | Adjust DATA_OFFSET_Y or use "above" position |
| Data object outside lane | Handled automatically by lane-by-lane positioning |
| Guard not showing | Verify flow tuple has 3 elements: (src, tgt, guard) |

---

## User Instructions to Include

When generating a process file, include this note:

```
## Setup (one time)

1. Place `BPMN_Helpers.py` in your Modelio macros folder:
   `.modelio/5.4/macros/BPMN_Helpers.py`

2. Adjust the path in execfile() if the path differs

## Usage

1. Select a Package in Modelio
2. Run this macro
3. The diagram will be created automatically
```

---

## Test Cases Available

| Test | Description | Features Tested |
|------|-------------|-----------------|
| Test_01_SimpleLinear | 3 tasks in sequence | START, END, USER_TASK, basic flows |
| Test_02_ExclusiveGateway | Decision with guards | EXCLUSIVE_GW, guards, multiple ends |
| Test_03_ParallelGateway | Fork and join | PARALLEL_GW, parallel paths |
| Test_04_TimerMessageEvents | Scheduled process | TIMER_START, MESSAGE_END, SERVICE_TASK |
| Test_05_DataObjects | Document workflow | DATA_OBJECT, data_associations |

---

## Version History

- v2.2 (Dec 2025): Fixed Data Association semantics (StartingActivity/EndingActivity), lane-by-lane data object positioning
- v2.1 (Dec 2025): Added Data Objects and Data Associations
- v2.0 (Dec 2025): Two-file approach with helper library separation
- v0.9.x and earlier: Single-file approach (archived in v1/ directory)

Commit message:

Clarify DATA_OBJECT usage to prevent confusion
Updated documentation to clearly indicate that DATA_OBJECT is NOT
used in the elements list, preventing users from incorrectly adding
data objects there.

Changes to CLAUDE_INSTRUCTIONS.md:
- Changed section title to "Element Types (for elements list)"
- Removed DATA_OBJECT row from the elements table
- Added note directing users to use data_objects config section

Changes to API_REFERENCE.md:
- Added warning at top of Element Type Constants section
- Replaced Data Elements table with explanation and example
- Shows correct usage: data_objects config section, not elements list

This resolves inconsistency #8. Users should now understand that:
- Tasks, events, gateways → use elements list
- Data objects → use data_objects config section (separate)

The DATA_OBJECT constant exists internally for the helper library
but is never used directly in user-generated CONFIG dictionaries.

CLAUDE_INSTRUCTIONS.md, after:

# Modelio BPMN Macro Generation - Claude Instructions v2.2

## Overview

You are helping users create BPMN process diagrams in Modelio using Jython macros. 

**Two-file system** for faster, more reliable generation:

1. **BPMN_Helpers.py** - Helper library (placed in Modelio macros folder)
2. **Generated file** - Pure configuration + `execfile()` to load helpers

**v2.2 Features**:
- Data Objects with automatic lane expansion
- Data Associations with correct BPMN semantics
- Lane-by-lane positioning for proper diagram layout

## Why Two Files?

| Benefit | Explanation |
|---------|-------------|
| Faster generation | Only generate configuration, not 500+ lines of helpers |
| More reliable | Helper code is tested; only configuration can vary |
| Easier debugging | Configuration is declarative and easy to validate |
| Smaller error surface | Less generated code = fewer syntax errors |
| Single execution | `execfile()` loads helpers automatically |

---

## Quick Start for Claude

When a user asks for a BPMN diagram:

1. **Ask clarifying questions** about lanes, tasks, decisions if needed
2. **Generate ONLY the configuration file** (with execfile to load helpers)
3. **Remind user** to place BPMN_Helpers.py in their macros folder

### Minimal Generated File Template

```python
#
# ProcessName.py
#
# Description: [Brief description]
# Applicable on: Package
#

from org.modelio.metamodel.uml.statik import Package

# Load helper library (adjust path for your Modelio version)
execfile(".modelio/5.4/macros/BPMN_Helpers.py")

CONFIG = {
    "name": "ProcessName",
    
    "lanes": ["Lane1", "Lane2"],
    
    "elements": [
        ("Start", START, "Lane1"),
        ("Task 1", USER_TASK, "Lane1"),
        ("End", END, "Lane2"),
    ],
    
    "flows": [
        ("Start", "Task 1", ""),
        ("Task 1", "End", ""),
    ],
    
    "layout": {
        "Start": 0,
        "Task 1": 1,
        "End": 2,
    },
}

# Entry point
if (selectedElements.size > 0):
    element = selectedElements.get(0)
    if (isinstance(element, Package)):
        createBPMNFromConfig(element, CONFIG)
    else:
        print "ERROR: Select a Package."
else:
    print "ERROR: Select a Package first."
```

---

## Configuration Reference

### Element Types (for `elements` list)

| Constant | Icon | Use |
|----------|------|-----|
| `START` | Green circle | Process start |
| `MESSAGE_START` | Envelope green circle | Start triggered by message |
| `TIMER_START` | Clock green circle | Start triggered by schedule |
| `END` | Red circle | Process end |
| `MESSAGE_END` | Envelope red circle | End that sends message |
| `USER_TASK` | Person rectangle | Human activity with IT |
| `SERVICE_TASK` | Gear rectangle | Automated task |
| `MANUAL_TASK` | Hand rectangle | Physical task without IT |
| `EXCLUSIVE_GW` | Diamond with X | XOR decision (one path) |
| `PARALLEL_GW` | Diamond with + | AND split/join (all paths) |

**Note:** For data objects, use the separate `data_objects` configuration section (see below), NOT the `elements` list.

### CONFIG Structure

```python
CONFIG = {
    # Required
    "name": "ProcessName",           # Base name (gets unique suffix)
    "lanes": ["Lane1", "Lane2"],     # Top to bottom order
    "elements": [...],               # List of (name, type, lane)
    "flows": [...],                  # List of (source, target, guard)
    "layout": {...},                 # Dict of name -> column
    
    # Optional - Data Objects
    "data_objects": [...],           # List of (name, lane, column, position)
    "data_associations": [...],      # List of (source, target, direction)
    
    # Optional layout settings (defaults shown)
    "SPACING": 150,                  # Horizontal spacing
    "START_X": 80,                   # Starting X position
    "TASK_WIDTH": 120,               # Task width
    "TASK_HEIGHT": 60,               # Task height
    "DATA_WIDTH": 40,                # Data object width
    "DATA_HEIGHT": 50,               # Data object height
    "DATA_OFFSET_X": 20,             # Data object X offset from column
    "DATA_OFFSET_Y": 80,             # Data object Y offset (positive = below tasks)
    "WAIT_TIME_MS": 50,              # Wait between unmask checks
    "MAX_ATTEMPTS": 3,               # Max unmask attempts
}
```

### Elements Format

```python
"elements": [
    ("Element Name", ELEMENT_TYPE, "Lane Name"),
    # ...
]
```

- **Element Name**: Unique string shown in diagram
- **ELEMENT_TYPE**: One of the constants above
- **Lane Name**: Must exactly match a name in `lanes` list

### Flows Format

```python
"flows": [
    ("Source Name", "Target Name", "Guard/Label"),
    # ...
]
```

- **Source/Target Name**: Must match element names exactly
- **Guard/Label**: Text shown on arrow (use "" for no label)
- Guards are especially useful for gateway outflows: `"Yes"`, `"No"`, `"Approved"`, etc.

### Layout Format

```python
"layout": {
    "Element Name": column_index,  # 0, 1, 2, ...
    # ...
}
```

- **column_index**: Horizontal position (0 = leftmost)
- Elements in same lane at same column will overlap!
- Plan your column layout carefully for complex processes

### Data Objects Format (Optional)

```python
"data_objects": [
    ("Data Name", "Lane Name", column_index, "above|below"),
    # ...
]
```

- **Data Name**: Unique string for the data object
- **Lane Name**: Which lane to place it in
- **column_index**: Horizontal position (typically same column as the task that outputs it)
- **position**: `"below"` (recommended) or `"above"` relative to lane center

**Positioning Note**: Data objects are positioned lane-by-lane (top to bottom). When data objects extend beyond a lane's boundary, Modelio auto-expands the lane, pushing subsequent lanes down. The helper library handles this by re-reading lane coordinates after each lane's data objects are positioned.

### Data Associations Format (Optional)

```python
"data_associations": [
    ("Source Name", "Target Name", "input|output"),
    # ...
]
```

- **Source/Target**: Element or data object names
- **direction**:
  - `"output"`: Task produces data (Task → Data Object)
  - `"input"`: Task consumes data (Data Object → Task)

**BPMN Semantics**:
- OUTPUT: Sets `StartingActivity = Task`, `TargetRef = DataObject`
- INPUT: Sets `EndingActivity = Task`, `SourceRef = DataObject`

**Data Flow Pattern**: A typical data flow goes:
```
Task A --(output)--> Data Object --(input)--> Task B
```

This means:
1. Task A produces the data object (output association, arrow from Task A to Data Object)
2. The data object is consumed by Task B (input association, arrow from Data Object to Task B)

---

## Critical Rules

### 1. Python 2 Syntax (Jython)
```python
# CORRECT
print "Hello"
print "Count: " + str(count)

# WRONG (Python 3)
print("Hello")
f"Count: {count}"
```

### 2. ASCII Only - No Unicode
```python
# CORRECT
"Approved?", "Yes", "No"

# WRONG - Will cause UnicodeDecodeError
"Approved?", "✓", "✗"
```

### 3. Exact Name Matching
Lane names, element names, and flow references must match exactly (case-sensitive).

### 4. Complete Coverage
- Every element needs a layout entry
- Every element except ends needs at least one outgoing flow
- Every element except starts needs at least one incoming flow

---

## Example: Simple Approval Process

```python
CONFIG = {
    "name": "SimpleApproval",
    
    "lanes": ["Requester", "Approver"],
    
    "elements": [
        ("Submit Request",  START,        "Requester"),
        ("Fill Form",       USER_TASK,    "Requester"),
        ("Review Request",  USER_TASK,    "Approver"),
        ("Decide",          EXCLUSIVE_GW, "Approver"),
        ("Approved",        END,          "Requester"),
        ("Rejected",        END,          "Requester"),
    ],
    
    "flows": [
        ("Submit Request", "Fill Form",      ""),
        ("Fill Form",      "Review Request", ""),
        ("Review Request", "Decide",         ""),
        ("Decide",         "Approved",       "Yes"),
        ("Decide",         "Rejected",       "No"),
    ],
    
    "layout": {
        "Submit Request":  0,
        "Fill Form":       1,
        "Review Request":  2,
        "Decide":          3,
        "Approved":        4,
        "Rejected":        4,  # Same column, different lane
    },
}
```

---

## Example: Process with Data Objects

```python
CONFIG = {
    "name": "DocumentReview",
    
    "lanes": ["Author", "Reviewer"],
    
    "elements": [
        ("Start",           START,     "Author"),
        ("Write Document",  USER_TASK, "Author"),
        ("Submit",          USER_TASK, "Author"),
        ("Review",          USER_TASK, "Reviewer"),
        ("Add Comments",    USER_TASK, "Reviewer"),
        ("End",             END,       "Reviewer"),
    ],
    
    # Data Objects: (name, lane, column, position)
    # Place below the task that outputs them (same column)
    "data_objects": [
        ("Draft",     "Author",   1, "below"),  # Below Write Document
        ("Final Doc", "Author",   2, "below"),  # Below Submit
        ("Comments",  "Reviewer", 3, "below"),  # Below Review
    ],
    
    # Data Associations: (source, target, direction)
    # Pattern: Task outputs data, data inputs to next task
    "data_associations": [
        ("Write Document", "Draft",        "output"),  # Task produces data
        ("Draft",          "Submit",       "input"),   # Data consumed by task
        ("Submit",         "Final Doc",    "output"),
        ("Final Doc",      "Review",       "input"),
        ("Review",         "Comments",     "output"),
        ("Comments",       "Add Comments", "input"),
    ],
    
    "flows": [
        ("Start",          "Write Document", ""),
        ("Write Document", "Submit",         ""),
        ("Submit",         "Review",         ""),
        ("Review",         "Add Comments",   ""),
        ("Add Comments",   "End",            ""),
    ],
    
    "layout": {
        "Start":          0,
        "Write Document": 1,
        "Submit":         2,
        "Review":         3,
        "Add Comments":   4,
        "End":            5,
    },
}
```

---

## Troubleshooting

| Problem | Solution |
|---------|----------|
| `IOError: No such file` | Check BPMN_Helpers.py path in execfile() |
| `NameError: createBPMNFromConfig` | execfile() path is wrong or file missing |
| UnicodeDecodeError | Use ASCII only - no special characters |
| Element in wrong lane | Check lane name spelling in elements list |
| Missing element | Check name spelling in layout and flows |
| Elements overlap | Use different column indices |
| Flow not showing | Check source/target names match exactly |
| Data association missing | Check element names in data_associations |
| Data association arrow wrong direction | Verify "input" vs "output" direction is correct |
| Data object overlaps task | Adjust DATA_OFFSET_Y or use "above" position |
| Data object outside lane | Handled automatically by lane-by-lane positioning |
| Guard not showing | Verify flow tuple has 3 elements: (src, tgt, guard) |

---

## User Instructions to Include

When generating a process file, include this note:

```
## Setup (one time)

1. Place `BPMN_Helpers.py` in your Modelio macros folder:
   `.modelio/5.4/macros/BPMN_Helpers.py`

2. Adjust the path in execfile() if the path differs

## Usage

1. Select a Package in Modelio
2. Run this macro
3. The diagram will be created automatically
```

---

## Test Cases Available

| Test | Description | Features Tested |
|------|-------------|-----------------|
| Test_01_SimpleLinear | 3 tasks in sequence | START, END, USER_TASK, basic flows |
| Test_02_ExclusiveGateway | Decision with guards | EXCLUSIVE_GW, guards, multiple ends |
| Test_03_ParallelGateway | Fork and join | PARALLEL_GW, parallel paths |
| Test_04_TimerMessageEvents | Scheduled process | TIMER_START, MESSAGE_END, SERVICE_TASK |
| Test_05_DataObjects | Document workflow | DATA_OBJECT, data_associations |

---

## Version History

- v2.2 (Dec 2025): Fixed Data Association semantics (StartingActivity/EndingActivity), lane-by-lane data object positioning
- v2.1 (Dec 2025): Added Data Objects and Data Associations
- v2.0 (Dec 2025): Two-file approach with helper library separation
- v0.9.x and earlier: Single-file approach (archived in v1/ directory)
